Dasha 2005-8-31 10:11:40

Dasha读诗笔记之炫耀


Wo mein Plato Paradiese schuf

aus: Griechenland (an St.) von Friedrich Hölderlin
 

Where my Plato created paradises

translated by “L&H Power Translator Pro V. 7.0”
 

柏拉图（Πλάτων，Plato，427-347 BC）。此处的“das Paradies”指称的是柏拉图在雅典城外西北处的Aκαδημία圣林创建学校。史称“学园”，die Akademie，academe，academy，即今日所说的“学院、研究院”。阿提卡英雄阿卡得摩斯（Ακάδημος，Akademos，Hekademos）的墓冢在雅典城墙外被真实地发现，因此，其周围的树林被名之为Aκαδημία。


Since the words "academy" and "academic" come from the name of the area where Plato taught, it is worth spending a moment to describe the park which was used for gymnastics from the sixth century BC. Academus or Hecademus, a mythical hero who had a cult following, left a garden and grove, which was about a mile north west of the centre of the city of Athens, to the citizens to use for gymnastics. The area, named after Academus, was developed by Hippias, the son of Peisistratos, who built a wall round it and put up statues and temples. Excavations have deteceted the foundations of Hippias's wall. The statesman Kimon planted olive and plane trees there and diverted the river Cephisus to make the dry land fertile. Festivals were held there, as were athletic events in which runners would races between the altars, and funeral games also took place in the Academy.

http://www-groups.dcs.st-and.ac.uk/~history/Societies/Plato.html

Academus: A hero from Attica. A sacred area (northwest of Athens) dedicated to him was called the Academy. Plato founded his school there, and his students where called academics.
 

A legendary hero in Greek mythology, Akademos (originally Hekademos) or, less correctly, Academus was linked to the archaic name for the site of Plato's Academy, the Hekademeia, outside the walls of Athens. By classical times the name of the place had evolved into the Akademeia and was explained by linking it to an eponymous Athenian hero, a legendary "Akademos," at least as early as the beginning of the 6th century BC. The site was sacred to Athena and other immortals; it had sheltered religious cult since the Bronze Age, which was perhaps associated with the hero-gods, the Dioskouroi (Castor and Polydeukes), for the hero Akademos associated with the site was credited with revealing to the Divine Twins where Theseus had hidden Helen of Troy.

Akademeia was the source of the word "academy".

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Academus
 

汉语时常谈及的“理想国”乃“Πολιτεία（Politeia，der Staat）”，“城邦、共和国”意。此处Hölderlin使用的是“das Paradies”，“das Paradies”，化自希腊语“Παράδεισος”，意为“花园；地上乐园”（有解作“乐土、福地”，Dasha以为此义当为Ηλυσιον），本指波斯的御苑（پرديس），《圣经》中的“乐园”之意，亦源于波斯的御苑。


小小潘 2005-9-1 14:33:14

提提有些文字虽看不懂，但可以学学你的治学方法