绿豆 2003-6-6 12:44:26

给大家一个礼物吧，休斯《四季歌》的扫描全书。要正确格式的请发email联系，wuji111@yahoo.com



Season Songs By Ted Hughes

(Published by The Viking Press,1975)



一，SPRING



A MARCH CALF



Right from the start he is dressed in his best—his blacks and his whites. 

Little Fauntleroy—quiffed and glossy, 

A Sunday suit, a wedding natty get-up, 

Standing in dunged straw



Under cobwebby beams, near the mud wall, 

Half of him legs,

Shining-eyed, requiring nothing more 

But that mother's milk come back often.

Everything else is in order, just as it is.

Let the summer skies hold off, for the moment.

This is just as he wants it.

A little at a time, of each new thing, is best.



Too much and too sudden is too frightening— 

When I block the light, a bulk from space, 

To let him in to his mother for a suck, 

He bolts a yard or two, then freezes,

Staring from every hair in all directions,

Ready for the worst, shut up in his hopeful religion,

A little syllogism

With a wet blue-reddish muzzle, for God's thumb.

You see all his hopes bustling

As he reaches between the worn rails towards

The topheavy oven of his mother.

He trembles to grow, stretching his curl-tip tongue—



What did cattle ever find here

To make this dear little fellow

So eager to prepare himself ?

He is already in the race, and quivering to win—



His new purpled eyeball swivel-jerks 

In the elbowing push of his plans. 

Hungry people are getting hungrier, 

Butchers developing expertise and markets,



But he just wobbles his tail—and glistens 

Within his dapper profile 

Unaware of how his whole lineage 

Has been tied up.



He shivers for feel of the world licking his side.

He is like an ember—one glow

Of lighting himself up

With the fuel of himself, breathing and brightening.



Soon he'll plunge out, to scatter his seething joy, 

To be present at the grass, 

To be free on the surface of such a wideness, 

To find himself himself. To stand. To moo.





THE RIVER IN MARCH



Now the river is rich, but her voice is low. 

It is her Mighty Majesty the sea 

Travelling among the villages incognito.



Now the river is poor. No song, just a thin mad whisper.

The winter floods have ruined her.

She squats between draggled banks, fingering her rags and rubbish.



And now the river is rich. A deep choir. 

It is the lofty clouds, that work in heaven, 

Going on their holiday to the sea.



The river is poor again. All her bones are showing. 

Through a dry wig of bleached flotsam she peers up ashamed 

From her slum of sticks.



Now the river is rich, collecting shawls and minerals. 

Rain brought fatness, but she takes ninety-nine percent 

Leaving the fields just one percent to survive on.



And now she is poor. Now she is East wind sick.

She huddles in holes and corners. The brassy sun gives her a headache.

She has lost all her fish. And she shivers.



But now once more she is rich. She is viewing her lands.

A hoard of kingcups spills from her folds, it blazes, it cannot be hidden.

A salmon, a sow of solid silver,



Bulges to glimpse it.





SPRING NATURE NOTES



I



The sun lies mild and still on the yard stones. 



The clue is a solitary daffodil—the first.



And the whole air struggling in soft excitements 

Like a woman hurrying into her silks. 

Birds everywhere zipping and unzipping 

Changing their minds, in soft excitements, 

Warming their wings and trying their voices.



The trees still spindle bare.



Beyond them, from the warmed blue hills 

An exhilaration swirls upward, like a huge fish.



As under a waterfall, in the bustling pool.



Over the whole land 

Spring thunders down in brilliant silence.



II

An oak tree on the first day of April 

Is as bare as the same oak in December 

But it looks completely different.



Now it bristles, it is a giant brazier

Of invisible glare, an invisible sun.

The oak tree's soul has returned and flames its strength.

You feel those rays—even though you can't see them

They disturb you.



(Just as you feel disturbed, and turn round 

To meet eyes staring straight at the back of your head.)



III



A spurt of daffodils, stiff and quivering—

Plumes, blades, creases, Guardsmen 

At attention



Like sentries at the tomb of a great queen. 

(Not like what they are—the advance guard 

Of a drunken slovenly army



Which will leave this whole place wrecked.)



IV

The crocuses are too naked. Space shakes them.

They remind you the North Sky is one vast hole

With black space blowing out of it

And that you too are being worn thin

By the blowing atoms of decomposed stars.



Down the moonbeams come hares 

Hobbling on their square wheels.

What space has left, the hares eat.



What the hares do not want

Looks next morning like the leavings of picnickers

Who were kidnapped by a fright from space.



The crocus bulb stays hidden—veteran 

Of terrors beyond man.



V



Spring bulges the hills. 

The bare trees creak and shift. 

Some buds have burst in tatters—

Like firework stubs.



But winter's lean bullocks

Only pretend to eat

The grass that will not come.



Then they bound like lambs, they twist in the air 

They bounce their half tons of elastic 

When the bale of hay breaks open.



They gambol from heap to heap, 

Finally stand happy chewing their beards 

Of last summer's dusty whiskers.



VI



With arms swinging, a tremendous skater 

On the flimsy ice of space, 

The earth leans into its curve—



Thrilled to the core, some flies have waded out 

An inch onto my window, to stand on the sky 

And try their buzz.





APRIL BIRTHDAY



When your birthday brings the world under your window

And the song-thrush sings wet-throated in the dew 

And aconite and primrose are unsticking the wrappers

Of the package that has come today for you



Lambs bounce out and stand astonished 

Puss willow pushes among bare branches 

Sooty hawthorns shiver into emerald

And a new air 

Nuzzles the sugary

Buds of the chestnut. A groundswell and a stir 

Billows the silvery 

Violet silks

Of the south—a tenderness 

Lifting through all the 

Gently-breasted 

Counties of England.



When the swallow snips the string that holds the world in

And the ringdove claps and nearly loops the loop 

You just can't count everything that follows in a tumble

Like a whole circus tumbling through a hoop



Grass in a mesh of all flowers floundering 

Sizzling leaves and blossoms bombing 

Nestlings hissing and groggy-legged insects



And the trees 

Stagger, they stronger 

Brace their boles and biceps under 

The load of gift. And the hills are floating 

Light as bubble-glass 

Over the smoke-blue evening 

And rabbits are bobbing all over, and a thrush 

Rings coolly in a far corner. A shiver of green 

Strokes the darkening slope as the land 

Begins her labour.





DECEPTIONS



The oak is a railway station.

Wait there for the spring.

Will it stop for you ?

The famous express blurs through—

Where is it going ?

Leaving all the oak's fronds in a blush and agitation—

Nor will you catch it at the ash.



The March hare brings the spring

For you personally.

He is too drunk to deliver it.

He loses it on some hare-brained folly—

Now you will never recover it.

All year he will be fleeing and flattening his ears and fleeing—

Eluding your fury.



With the cherry bloom for her fancy dress 

Spring is giving a party— 

And we have been invited. 

We've just arrived, all excited,

When she rushes out past us weeping, tattered and dirty—

Wind and rain are wrecking the place

And we can only go home.



Spring will marry you. A promise!

Cuckoo brings the message: May.

0 new clothes! 0 get your house ready!

Expectation keeps you starry.

But at which church and on what day ?

All month you sit waiting, and in June you know that it's on'.

And the cuckoo has started to laugh.





SWIFTS



Fifteenth of May. Cherry blossom. The swifts

Materialise at the tip of a long scream

Of needle— "Look! They're back! Look!" And they're gone

On a steep



Controlled scream of skid

Round the house-end and away under the cherries. Gone. 

Suddenly flickering in sky summit, three or four together, 

Gnat-whisp frail, and hover-searching, and listening



For air-chills—are they too early ? With a bowing 

Power-thrust to left, then to right, then a flicker they 

Tilt into a slide, a tremble for balance, 

Then a lashing down disappearance



Behind elms.



And they've made rt again, 

Which means the globe's still working, the Creation's 

Still waking refreshed, our summer's 

Still all to come—

. And here they are, here they are again 

Erupting across yard-stones 

Shrapnel-scatter terror. Frog-gapers, 

Speedway goggles, international mobsters—



A bolas of three or four wire screams 

Jockeying across each other 

On their switchback wheel of death. 

They swat past, hard-fletched,



Veer on the hard air, toss up over the roof 

And are gone again. Their mole-dark labouring, 

Their lunatic limber scramming frenzy 

And their whirling blades



Sparkle out into blue—

Not ours any more. 

Rats ransacked their nests, so now they shun us. 

Round luckier houses now 

They crowd their evening dirt-track meetings



Racing their discords, screaming as if speed-burned, 

Head-height, clipping the doorway 

With their leaden velocity and their butterfly lightness, 

Their too-much power, their arrow-thwack into the eaves.



Every year a first-fling nearly-flying

Misfit flopped in our yard,

Groggily somersaulting to get airborne.

He bat-crawled on his tiny useless feet, tangling his flails,



Like a broken toy, and shrieking thinly 

Till I tossed him up—then suddenly he flowed away under 

His bowed shoulders of enormous swimming power, 

Slid away along levels wobbling



On the fine wire they have reduced life to, 

And crashed among the raspberries. 

Then followed fiery hospital hours 

In a kitchen. The moustached goblin savage



Nested in a scarf. The bright blank 

Blind, like an angel, to my meat-crumbs and flies. 

Then eyelids resting. Wasted clingers curled. 

The inevitable balsa death.

Finally burial

For the husk 

Of my little Apollo— 

The charred scream 

Folded in its huge power.





二，SUMMER



HAY



The grass is happy

To run like a sea, to be glossed like a mink's fur

By polishing wind.

Her heart is the weather,

She loves nobody

Least of all the farmer who leans on the gate.



The grass is happy

When the June sun roasts the foxgloves in the hedges.

She comes into her flower. .

She lifts her skirts.

It does not concern her

The pondering farmer has begun to hope.



The grass is happy

When the farmer takes his fate in his hands

Ignoring his weather-fear,

And gambles his chances.

She flings him her pollens,

Beautifully down in her shining she lies.



The grass is happy

To open her scents, like a dress, through the county,

Drugging light hearts

To heavy betrothals

And next April's Fools,

While pensioners puzzle where life went so airily.



The grass is happy

When the spinner tumbles her, she silvers and she sweetens.

Plain as a castle

The hare looks for home

And the dusty farmer

For a hand-shaped cloud and a yellow evening.



Happy the grass 

To be wooed by the farmer, who wins her and brings her to church in her beauty,

Bride of the Island. 

Luckless the long-drawn 

Aeons of Eden

Before he came to mow.





MACKEREL SONG



While others sing the mackerel's armour 

His stub scissor head, and his big blurred eye 

And the flimsy savagery of his onset 

I sing his simple hunger.



While others sing the mackerel's swagger 

His miniature ocelot oil-green stripings 

And his torpedo solidity of thump 

I sing his gormless plenty.



While others sing the mackerel's fury 

The belly-tug lightning-trickle of his evasions 

And the wrist-thick muscle of his last word 

I sing his loyal come-back.



While others sing the mackerel's acquaintance 

The soap of phosphorous he lathers on your fingers 

The midget gut and the tropical racer's torso 

I sing his scorched sweetness.



While others sing the mackerel's demise 

His ultimatum to be cooked instantly 

And the shock of his decay announcement 

I sing how he makes

the rich summer seas

a million times richer



With the gift of his millions.





SHEEP



I



The sheep has stopped crying.

All morning in her wire-mesh compound

On the lawn, she has been crying

For her vanished lamb. Yesterday they came.

Then her lamb could stand, in a fashion,

And make some tiptoe cringing.steps.

Now he has disappeared.

He was only half the proper size,

And his cry was wrong. It was not

A dry little hard bleat, a baby-cry

Over a flat tongue, it was human,

It was a despairing human smooth Oh!

Like no lamb I ever heard. Its hindlegs

Cowered in under its lumped spine,

Its feeble hips leaned towards

Its shoulders for-support. Its stubbly

White wool pyramid head, on a tottery neck,

Had sad and defeated eyes, pinched, pathetic,

Too small, and it cried all the time

Oh! Oh! staggering towards

Its alert, baffled, stamping, storming mother

Who feared our intentions. He was too weak

To find her teats, or to nuzzle up in under,

He hadn't the gumption. He was fully

Occupied just standing, then shuffling

Towards where she'd removed to. She knew

He wasn't right, she couldn't

Make him out. Then his rough-curl legs,

So stoutly built, and hooved

With real quality tips,

Just got in the way, like a loose bundle

Of firewood he was cursed to manage,

Too heavy for him, lending sometimes

Some support, but no strength, no real help.

When we sat his mother on her tail, he mouthed her teat, 

Slobbered a little, but after a minute 

Lost aim and interest, his muzzle wandered, 

He was managing a difficulty 

Much more important and urgent. By evening 

He could not stand. It was not 

That he could not thrive, he was born 

With everything but the will— 

That can be deformed, just like a limb. 

Death was more interesting to him. 

Life could not get his attention. So he died, with the yellow birth-mucous 

Still in his cardigan.

He did not survive a warm summer night. 

Now his mother has started crying again.

 The wind is oceanic in the elms 

And the blossom is all set.



II



What is it this time the dark barn again

Where men jerk me off my feet

And shout over me with murder voices

And do something painful to somewhere on my body



Why am I grabbed by the leg and dragged from my friends 

Where I was hidden safe though it was hot 

Why am I dragged into the light and whirled onto my back 

Why am I sat up on my rear end with my legs splayed



A man grips me helpless his knees grip me helpless 

What is that buzzer what is it coming 

Buzzing like a big fierce insect on a long tangling of snake 

What is the man doing to me with his buzzing thing



That I cannot see he is pressing it into me

I surrender I let my legs kick I let myself be killed

I let him hoist me about he twists me flat

In a leverage of arms and legs my neck pinned under his ankle



While he does something dreadful down the whole length of my belly 

My little teats stand helpless and terrified as he buzzes around them



Poor old ewe! She peers around from her ridiculous position, 

Cool intelligent eyes, of grey-banded agate and amber,



Eyes deep and clear with feeling and understanding 

While her monster hooves dangle helpless 

And a groan like no bleat vibrates in her squashed windpipe 

And the cutter buzzes at her groin and her fleece piles away



Now it buzzes at her throat and she emerges whitely 

More and more grotesquely female and nude 

Paunchy and skinny, while her old rug, with its foul tassels 

Heaps from her as a foam-stiff, foam-soft, yoke-yellow robe



Numbed all over she suddenly feels much lighter

She feels herself free, her legs are her own and she scrambles up

Waiting for that grapple of hands to fling her down again

She stands in the opened arch of his knees she is facing a bright doorway



With a real bleat to comfort the lamb in herself

She trots across the threshold and makes one high clearing bound

To break from the cramp of her fright

And surprised by her new lightness and delighted



She trots away, noble-nosed, her pride unsmirched. 

Her greasy winter-weight stays coiled on the foul floor, for somebody else to bother about.



She has a beautiful wet green brand on her bobbing brand-new backside 

She baas, she has come off best.



III



The mothers have come back 

From the shearing, and behind the hedge 

The woe of sheep is like a battlefield 

In the evening, when the fighting is over,

And the cold begins, and the dew falls,

And bowed women move with water.

Mother mother mother the lambs

Are crying, and the mothers are crying.

Nothing can resist that probe, that cry

Of a lamb for its mother, or a ewe's crying

For its lamb. The lambs cannot find

Their mothers among those shorn strangers.

A half-hour they have lamented,

Shaking their voices in desperation.

Bald brutal-voiced mothers braying out,

Flat-tongued lambs chopping off hopelessness.

Their hearts are in panic, their bodies

Are a mess of woe, woe they cry,

They mingle their trouble, a music

Of worse and worse distress, a worse entangling,

They hurry out little notes

With all their strength, cries searching this way and that.

The mothers force out sudden despair, blaaa!

On restless feet, with wild heads.

Their anguish goes on and on, in the June heat.

Only slowly their hurt dies, cry by cry,

As they fit themselves to what has happened.





WORK AND PLAY



The swallow of summer, she toils all summer, 

A blue-dark knot of glittering voltage, 

A whiplash swimmer, a fish of the air.

But the serpent of cars that crawls through the dust

In shimmering exhaust

Searching to slake

Its fever in ocean

Will play and be idle or else it will bust.



The swallow of summer, the barbed harpoon, 

She flings from the furnace, a rainbow of purples, 

Dips her glow in the pond and is perfect.

But the serpent of cars that collapsed at the beach

Disgorges its organs

A scamper of colours

Which roll like tomatoes

Nude as tomatoes

With sand in their creases

To cringe in the sparkle of rollers and screech.



The swallow of summer, the seamstress of summer, 

She scissors the blue into shapes and she sews it, 

She draws a long thread and she knots it at corners.

But the holiday people

Are laid out like wounded

Flat as in ovens

Roasting and basting

With faces of torment as space burns them blue

Their heads are transistors

Their teeth grit on sandgrains

Their lost kids are squalling

While man-eating flies

Jab electric shock needles but what can they do ?



They can climb in their cars with raw bodies, raw faces

And start up the serpent

And headache it homeward

A car full of squabbles

And sobbing and stickiness

With sand in their creases

Inhaling petroleum

That pours from the foxgloves

While the evening swallow

The swallow of summer, cartwheeling through crimson, 

Touches the honey-slow river and turning 

Returns to the hand stretched from under the eaves— 

A boomerang of rejoicing shadow.





THE HARVEST MOON



The flame-red moon, the harvest moon,

Rolls along the hills, gently bouncing,

A vast balloon,

Till it takes off, and sinks upward

To lie in the bottom of the sky, like a gold doubloon.



The harvest moon has come,

Booming softly through heaven, like a bassoon.

And earth replies all night, like a deep drum.



So people can't sleep,

So they go out where elms and oak trees keep

A kneeling vigil, in a religious hush.

The harvest moon has come.'

And all the moonlit cows and all the sheep 

Stare up at her, petrified, while the moon, 

Filling heaven, as if red hot, comes sailing 

Closer and closer like the end of the world



Till the gold fields of stiff wheat

Cry "We are ripe, reap us.'" and the rivers

Sweat from the melting hills.





THE GOLDEN BOY



In March he was buried

And nobody cried 

Buried in the dirt

Nobody protested 

Where grubs and insects

That nobody knows 

With outer-space faces

That nobody loves 

Can make him their feast

As if nobody cared.



But the Lord's mother

Full of her love 

Found him underground

And wrapped him with love 

As if he were her baby

Her own born love 

She nursed him with miracles

And starry love 

And he began to live

And to thrive on her love



He grew night and day

And his murderers were glad 

He grew like a fire

And his murderers were happy 

He grew lithe and tall

And his murderers were joyful 

He toiled in the fields

And his murderers cared for him 

He grew a gold beard

And his murderers laughed.

With terrible steel

They slew him in the furrow 

With terrible steel

They beat his bones from him 

With terrible steel

They ground him to powder 

They baked him in ovens

They sliced him on tables 

They ate him they ate him

They ate him they ate him



Thanking the Lord 

Thanking the Wheat 

Thanking the Bread 

For bringing them Life 

Today and Tomorrow

Out of the dirt.





三，AUTUMN



LEAVES



Who's killed the leaves ? 

Me, says the apple, I've killed them all 

Fat as a bomb or a cannonball. 

I've killed the leaves.



Who sees them drop ?

Me, says the pear, they will leave me all bare

So all the people can point and stare.

I see them drop.



Who'll catch their blood ?

Me, me, me, says the marrow, the marrow.

I'll get so rotund that they'll need a wheelbarrow.

I'll catch their blood.



Who' 11 make their shroud ? 

Me, says the swallow, there's just time enough 

Before I must pack all my spools and be off. 

I'll make their shroud.



Who'll dig their graves ?

Me, says the river, with the power of the clouds 

A brown deep grave I'll dig under my floods. 

I'll dig their grave.



Who'll be their parson ? 

Me, says the crow, for it is well known 

I study the bible right down to the bone. 

I'll be their parson.



Who'll be chief mourner ? 

Me, says the wind, I will cry through the grass 

The people will pale and go cold when I pass. 

I'll be chief mourner.



Who'll carry the coffin ?

Me, said the sunset, and the whole world will weep

To see me lower it into the deep.

I'll carry the coffin.



Who'll sing the psalm ?

Me, says the tractor, with my gear grinding glottle 

I'll plough up the stubble and sing through my throttle. 

I'll sing the psalm.



Who'll toll the bell ?

Me, said the robin, my song in October 

Will tell the still gardens the leaves are over. I

'll toll the bell.





AUTUMN NATURE NOTES



I



The laburnum top is silent, quite still

In the afternoon yellow September sunlight,

A few leaves yellowing, all its seeds fallen.



Till the goldfinch comes, with a twitching chirrup, 

A suddenness, a startlement, at a branch-end. 

Then sleek as a lizard, and alert, and abrupt 

She enters the thickness, and a machine starts up 

Of chitterings, and a tremor of wings, and trillings— 

The whole tree trembles and thrills. 

It is the engine of her family. 

She stokes it full, then flirts out to a branch-end 

Showing her barred face identity mask



Then with eerie delicate whistle-chirrup whisperings 

She launches away, towards the infinite 

And the laburnum subsides to empty.



II



The sun finally tolerable.

The sunflowers tired out, like old gardeners.

Cabbage-white butterflies eddying

In the still pool of what is left to them.

The buddleia's last cones of lilac intoxicant

Crusted with Peacock butterflies and Red Admirals.



A raven, orbiting elm-high, lazily, 

Two cronks to each circuit. 

Sky sprinkled with forked martins. 

Swallows glittering their voices,

Now a cooler push, rocking the mesh of soft-edged shadows.



So we sit on the earth which is warmed

And sweetened and ripened

By the furnace

On which the door has just about closed.



III



The chestnut splits its padded cell. 

It opens an African eye.



A cabinet-maker, an old master 

In the root of things, has done it again.



Its slippery gloss is a swoon, 

A peek over the edge into—



Down the well-shaft of swirly grain, 

Past the generous hands that lifted the May-lamps,



Into the Fairytale of a royal tree 

That does not know about conkers



Or the war-games of boys. 

Invisible though he is, this plump mare



Bears a tall armoured rider towards 

The murk-forest of rooty earth.



He rides to fight the North corner. 

He must win a sunbeam princess



From the cloud castle of the rains. 

If he fails, evil faces,



Jaws without eyes, will tear him to pieces. 

If he succeeds, and has the luck



To snatch his crown from the dragon 

Which resembles a slug



He will reign over our garden 

For two hundred years.



IV



When the Elm was full

When it heaved and all its tautnesses drummed

Like a full-sail ship



It was just how I felt.

Waist-deep, I ploughed through the lands,

I leaned at horizons, I bore down on strange harbours.



As the sea is a sail-ship's root

So the globe was mine.

When the swell lifted the crow from the Elm-top

Both Poles were my home, they rocked me and supplied me.



But now the Elm is still

All its frame bare

Its leaves are a carpet for the cabbages



And it stands engulfed in the peculiar golden light 

With which Eternity's flash Photographed the sudden cock pheasant—



Engine whinneying, the fire-ball bird clatters up, 

Shuddering full-throttle 

Its three-tongued tail-tip writhing



And the Elm stands, astonished, wet with light, 



As I stand, dazzled to my bones, blinded



V



Through all the orchard's boughs

A honey-colour stillness, a hurrying stealth,

A quiet migration of all that can escape now.



Under ripe apples, a snapshot album is smouldering.



With a bare twig,

Glow-dazed, I coax its stubborn feathers.

A blue tremor of the air. A gold furred flame.



The fleshless faces dissolve, layer by layer

As they peel open. Blackenings, shrivellings

To grey flutter. The clump's core hardens. Everything



Has to be gone through. Every corpuscle

And its gleam. Everything must go.

My heels squeeze wet mulch, and my crouch aches.



A wind-swell lifts through the oak. 

Scorch-scathed, crisping, a fleeing bonfire 

Hisses in invisible flames—and the flame-roar.



An alarmed blackbird, lean, alert, scolds 

The everywhere slow exposure—flees, returns.



VI



Water-wobbling blue-sky-puddled October. 

The distance microscopic, the ditches brilliant. 

Flowers so low-powered and fractional

 They are not in any book.



I walk on high fields feeling the bustle

Of the million earth-folk at their fair.

Fieldfares early, exciting foreigners.

A woodpigeon pressing over, important as a policeman.



A far Bang! Then Bang! and a litter of echoes—

Country pleasures. The farmer's guest, 

In U.S. combat green, will be trampling brambles, 

Waving his gun like a paddle.



I thought I'd brushed with a neighbour— 

Fox-reek, a warm web, rich as creosote, 

Draping the last watery blackberries— 

But it was the funeral service.



Two nights he has lain, patient in his position, 

Puckered under the first dews of being earth, 

Crumpled like dead bracken. His reek will cling 

To his remains till spring.



Then I shall steal his fangs, and wear them, and honour them.



VII



Three pale foxglove lamp-mantles, in full flare 

Among gritty burned-out spires of old foxgloves 

Under needling sleet, in a crossing squall.



This last week, a baby hand of blossom 

Among corroded leaves, over windfall apples.



Every apple was a festival of small slugs 



Probably thinking their good time has just started.



So the old year, tired,

Smiles over his tools, fondling them a little,

As he puts them away.



VIII



Oceanic windy dawn. 

Shapes grab at the window. 

Ravens go head over heels. 

The flood has scoured the sky.



No going on deck today. 

I see, through the submerged window, 

That the quince tree, which yesterday 

Still clung to a black leaf, has lost it.





THE DEFENDERS



With the apple in his strength, 

And the quince, his wise adviser, 

And the pear his thoughtful brother, 

With the blackberry and his thorn, 

So ready to shed his blood, 

And the plum with his stony bone, 

With the wheat in his millions, 

The barley and the rye 

We shall hold our own 

Against all winter's armour.



With the pumpkin in reserve

The turnip and the marrow

We shall hold our fire.

We shall go guerrilla

Asleep among the squirrels.

Over open ground we'll go

In the likeness of a crow.

When the gale comes we shall claw it

With a claw like a tree,

Then we'll hide down in the roots.

Or in a fox's footprints

Escape across the snow.



And nightly underground 

We'll prepare the secret hero, 

The little honey bee, 

Whose drum, when it begins, 

Will bring back all the blossom 

And sink the iceberg winter 

In the bottom of the sea.





The Seven Sorrows



The first sorrow of autumn

Is the slow goodbye

Of the garden who stands so long in the evening

A brown poppy head,

The stalk of a lily,

And still cannot go.



The second sorrow

Is the empty feet

Of the pheasant who hangs from a hook with his brothers.

The woodland of gold

Is folded in feathers

With its head in a bag.



And the third sorrow

Is the slow goodbye

Of the sun who has gathered the birds and who gathers

The minutes of evening,

The golden and holy

Ground of the picture.



The fourth sorrow

Is the pond gone black

Ruined and sunken the city of water--

The beetle's palace,

The catacombs

Of the dragonfly.



And the fifth sorrow 

Is the slow goodbye

Of the woodland that quietly breaks up its camp.

One day it's gone.

It has left only litter--

Firewood, tentpoles



And the sixth sorrow

Is the fox's sorrow

The joy of the huntsman, the joy of the hounds,

The hooves that pound

Till earth closes her ear

To the fox's prayer.



And the seventh sorrow

Is the slow goodbye

Of the face with its wrinkles that looks through the window

As the year packs up

Like a tatty fairground

That came for the children.





THE STAG



While the rain fell on the November woodland shoulder of Exmoor,

While the traffic jam along the road honked and shouted

Because the farmers were parking wherever they could

And scrambling to the bank-top to stare through the tree-fringe

Which was leafless,

The stag ran through his private forest.



While the rain drummed on the roofs of the parked cars

And kids inside cried and daubed their chocolate and fought

And mothers and aunts and grandmothers

Were a tangle of undoing sandwiches and screwed-round gossiping heads

Steaming up the windows,

The stag loped through his favourite valley.



While the blue horsemen down in the boggy meadow

Sodden nearly black, on sodden horses,

Spaced as at a military parade,

Moved a few paces to the right and a few to the left and felt rather foolish

Looking at the brown impassable river,

The stag came over the last hill of Exmoor.



While everybody high-kneed it to the bank-top all along the road 

Where steady men in oilskins were stationed at binoculars, 

And the horsemen down by the river galloped anxiously this way and that 

And the cry of hounds came tumbling invisibly with their echoes down

through the draggle of trees, 

Swinging across the wall of dark woodland, 

The stag dropped into a strange country.



And the stag turned at the river

Hearing how the hound-pack smashed the undergrowth, hearing the bell-note

Of the voice that carried all the others,

Then while his limbs all called different directions to his lungs that only

wanted to rest,

The blue horsemen on the bank opposite 

Pulled aside the camouflage of their terrible planet.



While the stag doubled back weeping and looking for home up a valley and

down a valley

While the strange trees struck at him and the brambles lashed him, 

And the strange earth came galloping after him carrying the hounds and their

hanging tongues to fling all over him, 

While his heart became just a club beating his ribs and his own hooves cried

with hounds' voices,

The crowd on the road got back into their cars 

Wet-through and disappointed.





THERE CAME A DAY



There came a day that caught the summer 

Wrung its neck 

Plucked it 

And ate it.



Now what shall I do with the trees ? 

The day said, the day said. 

Strip them bare, strip them bare. 

Let's see what is really there.



And what shall I do with the sun ?

The day said, the day said,

Roll him away till he's cold and small.

He'll come back rested if he comes back at all.



And what shall I do with the birds ? 

The day said, the day said, 

The birds I've frightened, let them flit, 

I'll hang out the pork for the brave tomtit.



And what shall I do with the seed ? 

The day said, the day said. 

Bury it deep, see what it's worth. 

See if it can stand the earth.



What shall I do with the people ?

The day said, the day said.

Stuff them with apple and blackberry pie—

They'll love me then till the day they die.



There came this day and he was autumn. 

His mouth was wide 

And red as a sunset. 

His tail was an icicle.





四，WINTER





THE WARRIOR OF WINTER



He met the star his enemy.

They fought the woods leafless.

He gripped his enemy.

They trampled fields to quag. 

His enemy was stronger.

A star fought against him.



He fought his losing fight

Up to the neck in the river. 

Grimly he fought in gateways,

He struggled among stones. 

He left his strength in puddles.

The star grew stronger.



Rising and falling

He blundered against houses. 

He gurgled for life in ditches.

Clouds mopped his great wounds. 

His shattered weapons glittered.

The star gazed down.



Wounded and prisoner

He slept on rotten sacking.

He gnawed bare stalks and turnip tops

In the goose's field. 

The sick sheep froze beside him.

The star was his guard.



At dawn. he woke white

Past moving or speaking. 

His wounds stuck bleak as blades.

Icicles barred his eyes. 

A crow was watching him.

The star had conquered.



With bones like frozen plumbing

He lay in the blue morning. 

His teeth locked in nis head

Like the trap-frozen fox. 

But he rejoiced a tear in the sun. 

Like buds his dressings softened.





DECEMBER RIVER



After the brown harvest of rains, express lights 

Are riding behind bare poles.



As the flood clears to cider and shrinks a little, 

Leaves spinning and toiling in the underboil, 

I go to End salmon.



A frost fragility hangs.

Duck-eggshell emptiness, bare to the space-freeze.

Jupiter crucified and painful, vapour-trails keen as incisions.



Blackly

Crusty tricorn sycamore leaves are tick-tocking down

To hit the water with a hard tiny crash.



From under the slag-smoke West 

The molten river comes bulging 

With its skin of lights.



Too late now to see much

I wade into the unfolding metals.



This vein from the sky is the sea-spirit's pathway.



Here all year salmon have been their own secret. 

They were the heavy slipperiness in the green oils.



The steady name—unfathomable— 

In the underbrow stare-darkness.



They had leapfrogged the river's fifty-mile ladder

With love-madness for strength,

Weightlifting through all its chimneys of tonnage



And came to their never-never land—to these 

Gutters the breadth of a tin bath. 

And dissolved



Into holes of obviousness. Anchored in strongholds

Of a total absence. Became

The transparency of their own windows.



So day in day out this whole summer

I offered all I had for a touch of their wealth—

I found only endlessly empty water.



But I go now, in near darkness,

Frost, and close to Christmas, and am admitted

To glance down and see, right at my heel,



A foot under, where backwater mills rubbish, 

Like a bleached hag laid out—the hooked gape 

And gargoyle lobster-claw grab



Of a dead salmon, and its white shirt-button eye.



That grimace

Of getting right through to the end and beyond it—

That helm



So marvellously engineered

Discarded, an empty stencil.

A negative, pale

In the dreggy swirlings

Of earth's already beginning mastication.



I freed it, I wanted to get it

Wedged properly mine

While the moment still held open.



As I lifted its child-heavy rubbery bulk 

Marbled crimson like an old woman's fire-baked thigh



The shallows below lifted

A broad bow-wave lifted and came frowning

Straight towards me, setting the whole pool rocking,



And slid under smoothness into the trench at my feet,



Into the grave of steel 

Which it could still buckle.





NEW YEAR SONG



Now there comes

The Christmas rose 

But that is eerie

too like a ghost 

Too like a creature

preserved under glass 

A blind white fish

from an underground lake 

Too like last year's widow

at a window

And the worst cold's to come.



Now there comes

The tight-vest lamb

With its wriggle-eel tail

and its wintry eye 

With its ice-age mammoth

Unconcern

Letting the aeon

seconds go by 

With its little peg hooves

to dot the snow 

Following its mother

into worse cold and worse

And the worst cold's to come.



Now there come

The weak-neck snowdrop

Bouncing like fountains

and they stop you, they make you 

Take a deep breath

make your heart shake you 

Such a too much of a gift

for such a mean time 

Nobody knows

how to accept them 

All you can do

is gaze at them baffled

And the worst cold's to come.



And now there comes 

The brittle crocus

To be nibbled by the starving hares

to be broken by snow 

Now comes the aconite

purpled by cold 

Now comes a song

into the storm-cock's fancy 

And the robin and the wren

they rejoice like each other 

In an hour of sunlight

for something important

Though the worst cold's to come.





SOLSTICE SONG



You have anti-freeze in the car,

But the shivering stars wade deeper. 

Your scarf's tucked in under your buttons,

But a dry snow ticks through the stubble. 

Your knee-boots glisten in the fashion,

But the moon must stay



And stamp and cry 

As the holly the holly 

Hots its reds



Electric blanket to comfort your bedtime

The river no longer feels its stones. 

Your windows are steamed by dumpling laughter

The snowplough's buried on the drifted moor 

Carols shake your television

And nothing moves on the road but the wind



Hither and thither 

The wind and three

Starving sheep.



Redwings from Norway rattle at the clouds

But comfortless sneezers puddle in pubs. 

The robin looks in at the kitchen window

But all care huddles to hearths and kettles. 

The sun lobs one wet snowball feebly

Grim and blue



The dusk of the coombe 

And the swamp forest 

Sinks with the wren.



See old lips go purple and old brows go paler.

The stiff crow drops in the midnight silence. 

Sneezes grow coughs and coughs grow painful.

The vixen yells in the midnight garden. 

You wake with the shakes and you watch your breathing

Smoke in the moonlight—silent, silent.



Your anklebone 

And your anklebone 

Lie big in the bed.





SNOW AND SNOW



Snow is sometimes a she, a soft one.

Her kiss on your cheek, her finger on your sleeve 

In early December, on a warm evening,

And you turn to meet her, saying "It's snowing!" 

But it is not. And nobody's there. 

Empty and calm is the air.



Sometimes the snow is a he, a sly one.

Weakly he signs the dry stone with a damp spot. 

Waifish he floats and touches the pond and is not.

Treacherous-beggarly he falters, and taps at the window. 

A little longer he clings to the grass-blade tip 

Getting his grip.



Then how she leans, how furry foxwrap she nestles

The sky with her warm, and the earth with her softness. 

How her lit crowding fairylands sink through the space-silence 

To build her palace, till it twinkles in starlight— 

Too frail for a foot 

Or a crumb of soot.          



Then how his muffled armies move in all night

And we wake and every road is blockaded 

Every hill taken and every farm occupied

And the white glare of his tents is on the ceiling. 

And all that dull blue day and on into the gloaming 

We have to watch more coming.



Then everything in the rubbish-heaped world

Is a bridesmaid at her miracle.

Dunghills and crumbly dark old barns are bowed in the chapel of her sparkle. 

The gruesome boggy cellars of the wood 

Are a wedding of lace 

Now taking place.





THE WARM AND THE COLD



Freezing dusk is closing

Like a slow trap of steel 

On trees and roads and hills and all 

That can no longer feel.

But the carp is in its depth

Like a planet in its heaven.

And the badger in its bedding

Like a loaf in the oven 

And the butterfly in its mummy

Like a viol in its case 

And the owl in its feathers 

Like a doll in its lace,



Freezing dusk has tightened

Like a nut screwed tight 

On the starry aeroplane 

Of the soaring night.

But the trout is in its hole

Like a chuckle in a sleeper.

The hare strays down the highway 

Like a root going deeper. 

The snail is dry in the outhouse 

Like a seed in a sunflower. 

The owl is pale on the gatepost 

Like a clock on its tower.



Moonlight freezes the shaggy world

Like a mammoth of ice— 

The past and the future 

Are the jaws of a steel vice.

But the cod is in the tide-rip

Like a key in a purse.

The deer are on the bare-blown hill

Like smiles on a nurse. 

The flies are behind the plaster

Like the lost score of a jig. 

Sparrows are in the ivy-clump 

Like money in a pig.



Such a frost

The freezing moon

Has lost her wits.



A star falls.



The sweating farmers 

Turn in their sleep 

Like oxen on spits.







绿豆 2003-6-6 12:48:47

这里的帖子显示不出正确的格式，将就些了

inandout 2003-6-6 12:58:54

不及欣赏，先欣赏了绿豆兄的慷慨，若不麻烦的话，请寄一份至xiaoyuhu@hotmail.com,谢谢

画皮 2003-6-6 13:53:53

辛苦了！请给我发一个：huapimail@163.com

多谢！

jb909 2003-6-6 14:00:44

借花献佛-汉字词首词尾字数据库查询网址借花献佛-汉字词首词尾字数据库查询网址

http://turing.iis.sinica.edu.tw/affix/



豆兄也寄一份正确格式档给我吧!!



jb909 2003-6-6 14:01:01

顺便问一下，谁有史耐德诗集？

jb909 2003-6-6 14:48:33

up!

Dasha 2003-6-7 07:10:39

豆兄，dat用什么软件打开:-(

画皮 2003-6-7 08:11:03

双击！word可以打开它：）

张国晨 2003-6-7 08:46:20

:)zhangguochen@sohu.com多谢兄长

