Gossudar 2007-3-31 21:59:06

原文：
Darling! You' ve sailed back to me
Roger Boyes in Berlin 
A tale of enduring, if misplaced, love between a black female swan and a large pedal boat has sparked another round of animal frenzy in Germany, a country that is still celebrating the antics of Knut the polar bear and mourning the death of a panda. 

The swan, known as Black Petra, became fixated with the plastic swan-shaped pedalo when she touched down on a lake, the Aasee, in northern Germany last year. 

Dozens of film crews turned up this week to see if the love had survived the winter or whether Black Petra would mate with a real swan. She stuck to the boat, stirring hope among all those Germans brought up to believe that summer romances are doomed. 

“I was sure that her boat fixation would be short-lived,” said Dirk Wewers, a behavioural biologist at the nearby M?er zoo. “But in the meantime it is clear that this is an imprint.” 

Konrad Lorenz, the late Austrian-German behavioural thinker, found that freshly hatched birds bonded socially with the first moving object they saw — and called the process “imprinting”. 

Black Petra spent last spring and summer swimming alongside the four-seater pedalo and making the usual mating gestures. The couple became a huge tourist attraction, prompting souvenirs and music CDs trumpeting the virtues of mismatched love. When winter came the pedalos were moored as usual in the boat house but Black Petra and her swain were allowed to spend the cold months together in M?er zoo. Visitors’ figures topped the million mark. 

The true test of the odd couple came this week. First Black Petra was put with half a dozen eligible, normal black swans. They attacked her and within days she had turned her back on them and was waddling after her favourite pedal boat. 

“The boat remains the most important thing in her life,” said Ilona Zaelke, a zoo spokes-woman. “She feels safe and protected.” 

In part, the national fascination with Black Petra, Knut and the panda Yan Yan (a celebrated resident of Berlin zoo that died last week) is to do with human sympathies for rejected animals. Petra plainly cannot have a normal relationship, Yan Yan failed to produce a cub and Knut was left out to die by his mother. 

The pathos of Knut became clear yesterday with the launch of the first Knut pop song. 

Trilled by a nine-year-old girl called Kitty, the lyrics begin: “Knut is a cuddly bear/ Who doesn’t have a mummy anymore.” In fact Knut’s mother, Tosca, is alive and well. She just does not like children very much. 

Germans take the animal world very seriously. Headlines such as “Knut should die” stemmed from a row about one of Europe’s most advanced animal protection laws. Leipzig zoo put a bear cub to sleep because it had been rejected by its mother and it would be illegal to bring it up with human bottle feeding. The law says that animals have to be reared in a manner appropriate to their species. 

An animal rights protester took the zoo to court — and said that to be consistent, Knut should also have been killed at birth. That set off a storm of protest — and some hard thinking about animal protection. 

Yet there has always been a clash between animal legislation and a world that uses animals as meat and as performers. The first modern animal protection was put into place by the Nazis in 1933. 

Just friends

— Mr P, a Gloucestershire peacock, spent last summer presenting his plumage to a considerably less amorous petrol pump 

— Gohan, a hamster named after the Japanese word for “meal”, was presented to Tokyo zoo’s rat snake Aochan. They became friends — Gohan takes naps on Aochan’s back 

— A Briton, Sharon Tendler, “married” dolphin Cindy in a ceremony in Israel. Ms Tendler wore a white dress and veil, presenting Cindy with a herring 

— A one-year-old orphaned hippopotamus and a centenarian giant tortoise became friends at a Kenyan zoo 

http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol ... /article1593765.ece

新华社编译：
以下内容需要积分高于 1 才可浏览
德国公园“上演”真假天鹅恋
　　　　闫超
　　在德国北部小镇明斯特一个人工湖中常可以看见一对“伉俪”的倩影。它们是两只“天鹅”，确切地说，那是一只真天鹅和一艘天鹅形的塑料踏板船。
　　约一年前，这只雌性黑天鹅第一次见到天鹅船，就一厢情愿地爱上对方，并一直追随着对方。它们的“恋情”受到德国民众的关注。快一年了，它们还“相爱”吗？英国《泰晤士报》３月３１日报道了它们的最新“恋情”。

　　（小标题）一见钟情
　　黑天鹅开始爱上天鹅船还是在２００６年５月。当时，黑天鹅还是只小天鹅。当它飞到明斯特那个人工湖中，发现了一只体形是它四五倍大的“白天鹅”后，就再也不愿离开。实际上，那只是艘天鹅形状的四座踏板船。
　　当时，在人工湖那里教划船的教练彼得·奥弗施密特说：“这只天鹅似乎坠入爱河，它整天守着那艘天鹅船，陪伴在它身边，不许别的船靠近。它把小船看成是强壮迷人的天鹅。”
　　不过，奥弗施密特也不无担心，一旦黑天鹅发现自己的“爱人”并不真是自己的同类，也许它会感到伤心。
　　“愿它一切都好，以后别再犯这样的错了，”他说。

　　（小标题）爱恋如故
　　快一年的时间过去了，奥弗施密特的担心似乎多余，因为黑天鹅依然执著地爱着那艘天鹅船。
　　冬去春来，今年３月末，几十名媒体人士涌到明斯特的人工湖，希望见证两只“天鹅”的恋情发展，看是否黑天鹅已发现真相，并找到了真爱。但他们看见，黑天鹅仍然依偎在天鹅船旁边。
　　工作人员介绍说，过去的这个冬天，人工湖里其他的天鹅船都按惯例被停泊在船库里，但为了体谅黑天鹅的“苦心”，破例让它与“爱人”一起在附近一个动物园中度过冬季。
　　黑天鹅的恋情引起德国民众的兴趣，前来观看它的人突破百万。它甚至成为当地一大景观，相关纪念品和有关“错配恋情”的音乐光盘也开始畅销。

　　（小标题）铭记对方
　　“我肯定，它对天鹅船的迷恋只是短期的，”当地一家动物园的生物学家迪克·韦威尔斯说，“现在，清楚的是，这是心理上的铭记。”
　　这一心理现象由奥地利裔德国行为思想家康拉德·洛伦茨发现。他的结论是，刚出生的鸟类动物总是和它们看见的第一个移动的物体关系亲密，用术语说，这是心理上的铭记。
　　几天前，相关人员给黑天鹅做了一个测试。他们另外找来６只黑天鹅，和那只“爱情主角”黑天鹅一起放在湖中。那６只黑天鹅对“主角”黑天鹅很不友善，时有挑衅之举。几天后，“主角”黑天鹅便总是背对着那６只黑天鹅，而且一直跟随在它最爱的天鹅船后面。
　　“这艘船保留有它（黑天鹅）生命中最重要的东西，”一名当地动物园发言人伊洛娜·策尔克说，“它觉得安全，得到了保护。”（完）（新华社供本报特稿）
　　关键词：黑天鹅（Black Petra）、天鹅踏板船（Swan-shaped Pedalo）2007/03/31 17:17
