——>>司马特 - 请帮忙看以下以下的句子怎么翻译 - 诗歌翻译


Dasha 2003-4-11 13:36:44

What is the meaning, significance and origin of the number seven in Judaism?Elie Wiesel 
Night 
New York, New York: Hill & Wang, 1960 

Never shall I forget that night, 
the first night in camp, 
which has turned my life into one long night, 
seven times cursed and seven times sealed. 

Never shall I forget that smoke. 
Never shall I forget the little faces of the children, 
whose bodies I saw turned into wreaths of smoke beneath a silent blue sky.
Never shall I forget those flames which consumed my faith forever.
Never shall I forget that nocturnal silence which deprived me, 
for all eternity, of the desire to live. 
Never shall I forget those moments 
which murdered my God and my soul and turned my dreams to dust.
Never shall I forget these things,
even if I am condemned to live as long as God Himself. Never.

http://www.achievement.org/autodoc/bibliography/Night_0
http://xroads.virginia.edu/~CAP/HOLO/ELIEBIO.HTM

Question

I am a religious studies minor.
I have seen the number seven appear in much of my reading about Judaism.
In his book, "Night," Elie Wiesel says,
 "seven times cursed and seven times sealed."
What is the meaning, significance and
 origin of the number seven in Judaism? 

Answer

The following article on the Aish.com website, written by Rabbi 
Yaakov Salomon, should answer your question: 

In the beginning... God created 7's.

Oh sure, He created light and dark, the heavens and earth, too. 
But for reasons unknown to us, He seemed to have a special 
affinity for the number 7.

The fact that the Torah begins with a verse containing 7 words 
and 28 letters (divisible by 7) is hardly remarkable. But when 
placed within the context of the overwhelming number of 
associations in Judaism with '7', a fascinating tapestry begins 
to unfurl. Let's take a closer look at this phenomenon.

Every spring, Jews around the world celebrate the holiday of 
Shavuot --commemorating the most seminal event in the history of 
mankind, God's revelation at Mount Sinai.

Shavuot. Curious name for this holiday, no? Shavuot means 
"weeks," underscoring the 7-week period between Passover and 
Shavuot in which we count each day (and week) in anticipation and 
preparation for re-living the Sinai revelation. But why call it 
Shavuot -- "weeks"? Why not call the holiday "Torah," or "Sinai," 
or "Commandments," or "Tablets." Of what significance is "Weeks"?

Time contains many different entities. Nearly all of them are 
related to natural phenomena. Days, nights, months, seasons and 
years are all directly determined, in some way, by the 
constellations. There is one exception -- the week. The 
formulation of a week seems to be totally arbitrary. Who needs 
it? Let one day just follow the previous one. And why 7 days? 

The concept of a week and its constitution of 7 days is one that 
is strictly God-invented and human-adopted. While we may quibble 
about creation -- how, when, by whom, why -- the world has 
consensually agreed to the concept of a week. The Beatles were 
wrong... there are only 7 days in a week. And whenever a week is 
completed it is yet another reminder to mankind (or should be) 
that God created the world in 7 days. (Only 6 days were required 
to manufacture the physical structures, but the process was not 
complete until the spiritual realm, Shabbat, was added.)

Call it the "week link."

Kabbalah teaches that 7 represents wholeness and completion. 
After 7 days, the world was complete. There are 6 directions in 
our world: north, south, east, west, up and down. Add to that the 
place where you are, and you have a total of 7 points of 
reference. 

Shavuot, marking the emergence of the Jewish people into a 
nation, by virtue of their receiving and accepting the Torah, 
also marks a completion. Perhaps that is why the holiday is 
called Shavuot, "Weeks." We want to identify this holiday as a 
completion of the process of Jewish nationhood.

No one is certain why God chose the number "7" to signify 
completion. All we can do is speculate, observe and marvel. 

In honor of our own completion of the 49 day period leading up to 
Shavuot, we present 49 allusions to the number "7" within 
Judaism. How many of these do you recognize? How many more can 
you add?

1. Shabbat is the 7th day of the week.
2. There are 7 weeks in the counting of the Omer before 
Shavuot. (Leviticus 23:15)
3. In Israel, there are 7 days of Passover and Sukkot. 
(Leviticus 23:6, 34)
4. Every 7th year, the land lays fallow during Shmita 
(Sabbatical year). (Leviticus 25:4)
5. After 7 cycles of Shmita, we have a Jubilee year (Yovel). 
(Leviticus 25:8)
6. When a close relative dies, we sit Shiva for 7 days.
7. On Sukkot we shake 7 species - 1 Lulav, 1 Esrog, 2 willows, 
and 3 myrtles.
8. Yitro, the first real convert to Judaism, had 7 different 
names, and 7 daughters (one who married Moses).
9. Moses was born and died on the same day - the 7th of Adar.
10. Our Sukkah huts are "visited" by 7 guests - Abraham, Isaac, 
Jacob, Moses, Aaron, Joseph and David.
11. The Menorah in the Temple had 7 branches.
12. Achashvarosh, King of Persia during the miracle of Purim, 
held a party for 7 days. (Esther 1:5)
13. There are 7 holidays in the Jewish year: Rosh Hashana, Yom 
Kippur, Sukkot, Chanukah, Purim, Passover, and Shavuot.
14. In addition to the 613 Commandments, the Sages added 7 
more.
15. There are 7 Noachide Laws pertaining to all humanity.
16. At every Jewish wedding, 7 blessings are recited (Sheva 
Brachot).
17. Each Shabbat, 7 people are called to the Torah reading 
(Aliyot).
18. The first verse in the Torah contains 7 words (and 28 
letters).
19. Our Matriarch Leah had 7 children - six sons and one 
daughter.
20. There were 7 days of preparation for the construction of 
the Tabernacle in the desert. (Leviticus 8:35)
21. Traditionally, the bride circles the groom 7 times under 
the Chuppah (wedding canopy).
22. We wind the Tefillin straps around the arm 7 times.
23. Moses was the 7th generation after Abraham.
24. Each plague in Egypt lasted 7 days.
25. In Pharaoh's dreams there were 7 cows and 7 stalks of 
grain. (Genesis 41)
26. The Biblical contamination period typically lasts 7 days. 
(Leviticus 13:4)
27. God created 7 levels of heaven. (Hence the expression, "I'm 
in 7th heaven!")
28. On Shabbat and holidays, we recite 7 blessings in the 
silent Amidah.
29. There are 7 special species of produce by which the Land of 
Israel is praised: wheat, barley, grapes, pomegranates, figs, 
olives, and dates. (Deut. 8:8)
30. The world has 7 continents.
31. The 7 weeks of the Omer correspond to the 7 "sefirot," the 
7 behavior traits in which we serve God: kindness, strength, 
beauty, triumph, splendor, foundation, and kingship.
32. Noah sent the dove and the raven out of the Ark for 7 days 
to inspect the weather conditions. (Genesis 8:10)
33. 7 nations warred with Israel: Canaanites, Hittites, 
Hivites, Amorites, Perizzites, Jebusites, and Girgashites.
34. On Yom Kippur, the High Priest sprinkled the blood in the 
Temple 7 times. (Leviticus 16)
35. The Jewish New Year of Rosh Hashana occurs, surprisingly, 
in the 7th month -- Tishrei. (Leviticus 23:24)
36. The Jewish calendar, largely lunar, has a cycle of 
intercalation that contains 7 leap years during each 19-year 
period.
37. There are 7 notes on the musical scale.
38. A Kohen (priest) should participate in the burial of 7 
relatives: father, mother, sister, brother, son, daughter, and 
spouse. (Leviticus 21:2)
39. We dance 7 circles (hakafot) on the holiday of Simchat 
Torah.
40. The smallest allowable dimension of a Sukkah is 7 by 7 
handbreadths.
41. The world has 7 seas.
42. Joshua led the Jewish People around the walls of Jericho 7 
times before the walls fell. (Joshua 6:15)
43. Jacob worked for Laban for 7 years (twice) in order to 
marry his daughters. (Genesis 29:27)
44. The Holy Temple contained 7 gates of entry.
45. We recite 7 blessings every day before and after the 
"Shema" -- 3 in the morning and 4 at night.
46. The Talmud lists 7 female prophets: Sarah, Miriam, Deborah, 
Hannah, Avigail, Chuldah, and Esther.
47. A Jewish servant regains freedom in the 7th year. (Exodus 
21:2)
48. We conclude our Yom Kippur prayers by proclaiming7 times, 
"The Lord is God!"
49. A Jewish wedding is followed by 7 days of celebration 
(Sheva Brachot).

With blessings from Jerusalem,

Rabbi Shraga Simmons
Aish.com

http://judaism.about.com/library/asktherabbi/bl_simmons_seven.htm