La famiglia Colonna

Dasha 2008-08-17 22:05:13

科隆纳家族和奥尔西尼家族以及它们在城内城外的领地和城堡仍然拥有支配一切的权力，百姓只不过是仰仗这个或那个家族的芸芸众生……

马克思历史学笔记  第二册（1300-1470年） / 中共中央马克思、恩格斯、列宁、斯大林著作编译局译. 红旗出版社, 1992年. 第21页


But among, perhaps above, the peers and princes of the city, I distinguish the rival houses of Colonna and Ursini, whose private story is an essential part of the annals of modern Rome. I. The name and arms of Colonna have been the theme of much doubtful etymology; nor have the orators and antiquarians overlooked either Trajan's pillar, or the columns of Hercules, or the pillar of Christ's flagellation, or the luminous column that guided the Israelites in the desert. Their first historical appearance in the year eleven hundred and four attests the power and antiquity, while it explains the simple meaning, of the name. By the usurpation of Cavae, the Colonna provoked the arms of Paschal the Second; but they lawfully held in the Campagna of Rome the hereditary fiefs of Zagarola and Colonna; and the latter of these towns was probably adorned with some lofty pillar, the relic of a villa or temple. They likewise possessed one moiety of the neighboring city of Tusculum, a strong presumption of their descent from the counts of Tusculum, who in the tenth century were the tyrants of the apostolic see. According to their own and the public opinion, the primitive and remote source was derived from the banks of the Rhine; and the sovereigns of Germany were not ashamed of a real or fabulous affinity with a noble race, which in the revolutions of seven hundred years has been often illustrated by merit and always by fortune. About the end of the thirteenth century, the most powerful branch was composed of an uncle and six bothers, all conspicuous in arms, or in the honors of the church. Of these, Peter was elected senator of Rome, introduced to the Capitol in a triumphal car, and hailed in some vain acclamations with the title of Caesar; while John and Stephen were declared marquis of Ancona and count of Romagna, by Nicholas the Fourth, a patron so partial to their family, that he has been delineated in satirical portraits, imprisoned as it were in a hollow pillar. After his decease their haughty behavior provoked the displeasure of the most implacable of mankind. The two cardinals, the uncle and the nephew, denied the election of Boniface the Eighth; and the Colonna were oppressed for a moment by his temporal and spiritual arms. He proclaimed a crusade against his personal enemies; their estates were confiscated; their fortresses on either side of the Tyber were besieged by the troops of St. Peter and those of the rival nobles; and after the ruin of Palestrina or Praeneste, their principal seat, the ground was marked with a ploughshare, the emblem of perpetual desolation. Degraded, banished, proscribed, the six brothers, in disguise and danger, wandered over Europe without renouncing the hope of deliverance and revenge. In this double hope, the French court was their surest asylum; they prompted and directed the enterprise of Philip; and I should praise their magnanimity, had they respected the misfortune and courage of the captive tyrant. His civil acts were annulled by the Roman people, who restored the honors and possessions of the Colonna; and some estimate may be formed of their wealth by their losses, of their losses by the damages of one hundred thousand gold florins which were granted them against the accomplices and heirs of the deceased pope. All the spiritual censures and disqualifications were abolished by his prudent successors; and the fortune of the house was more firmly established by this transient hurricane. The boldness of Sciarra Colonna was signalized in the captivity of Boniface, and long afterwards in the coronation of Lewis of Bavaria; and by the gratitude of the emperor, the pillar in their arms was encircled with a royal crown. But the first of the family in fame and merit was the elder Stephen, whom Petrarch loved and esteemed as a hero superior to his own times, and not unworthy of ancient Rome. Persecution and exile displayed to the nations his abilities in peace and war; in his distress he was an object, not of pity, but of reverence; the aspect of danger provoked him to avow his name and country; and when he was asked, "Where is now your fortress?" he laid his hand on his heart, and answered, "Here." He supported with the same virtue the return of prosperity; and, till the ruin of his declining age, the ancestors, the character, and the children of Stephen Colonna, exalted his dignity in the Roman republic, and at the court of Avignon. II. The Ursini migrated from Spoleto; the sons of Ursus, as they are styled in the twelfth century, from some eminent person, who is only known as the father of their race. But they were soon distinguished among the nobles of Rome, by the number and bravery of their kinsmen, the strength of their towers, the honors of the senate and sacred college, and the elevation of two popes, Celestin the Third and Nicholas the Third, of their name and lineage. Their riches may be accused as an early abuse of nepotism: the estates of St. Peter were alienated in their favor by the liberal Celestin; and Nicholas was ambitious for their sake to solicit the alliance of monarchs; to found new kingdoms in Lombardy and Tuscany; and to invest them with the perpetual office of senators of Rome. All that has been observed of the greatness of the Colonna will likewise redeemed to the glory of the Ursini, their constant and equal antagonists in the long hereditary feud, which distracted above two hundred and fifty years the ecclesiastical state. The jealously of preeminence and power was the true ground of their quarrel; but as a specious badge of distinction, the Colonna embraced the name of Ghibelines and the party of the empire; the Ursini espoused the title of Guelphs and the cause of the church. The eagle and the keys were displayed in their adverse banners; and the two factions of Italy most furiously raged when the origin and nature of the dispute were long since forgotten. After the retreat of the popes to Avignon they disputed in arms the vacant republic; and the mischiefs of discord were perpetuated by the wretched compromise of electing each year two rival senators. By their private hostilities the city and country were desolated, and the fluctuating balance inclined with their alternate success. But none of either family had fallen by the sword, till the most renowned champion of the Ursini was surprised and slain by the younger Stephen Colonna. His triumph is stained with the reproach of violating the truce; their defeat was basely avenged by the assassination, before the church door, of an innocent boy and his two servants. Yet the victorious Colonna, with an annual colleague, was declared senator of Rome during the term of five years. And the muse of Petrarch inspired a wish, a hope, a prediction, that the generous youth, the son of his venerable hero, would restore Rome and Italy to their pristine glory; that his justice would extirpate the wolves and lions, the serpents and bears, who labored to subvert the eternal basis of the marble column.

The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire. Vol. 12. by Edward Gibbon; Henry Hart Milman. New York: Thomas Crowell, 1900. Ch. LXIX. P117-122.


    但是在本市的这些贵族和亲王之中，或者是在他们之上，我要特别提起两个敌对的家族科隆纳和乌尔西尼，他们的家事是现代罗马编年史的重要组成部分。Ⅰ．科隆纳的名字和武力的来源问题一直是一个颇有争议的题目；我们的演说家和考古学家们也并不曾忽略掉图拉真石柱或赫耳枯勒斯的柱头，或基督遭鞭打的柱子，或那曾在沙漠中引导以色列人前进的光柱①。他们于１１０４年在历史上首次出现，说明了这一姓氏的强大和古老，同时也表明了它的简单含义。由于对卡韦的篡位，科隆纳惹怒了帕斯加尔二世，使他不惜动武；但是他们在罗马的坎帕那合法地占有扎伽罗拉和科隆纳的世袭封地；而这两镇中的后者也许装点着一些由一座别墅或庙宇残留下来的高大石柱。他们同样拥有邻近的城市托斯库卢姆的大约一半；这便足以使人肯定相信，他们必是１０世纪时曾是教皇教区的暴君的托斯库卢姆的后裔。根据他们自己的以及一般的看法，这个家族的最原始、最遥远的发源地是莱茵河畔；这个家族，在７００年的大变迁中，经常功绩显赫，而且始终以富有闻名，日耳曼的统治者们决不会因和这一高贵家族具有或真或假的血缘关系而感到丢人的。在大约１３世纪末，它的最有权势的一个支派中，包括了１个叔父和６个兄弟，他们全都在军队或在教会中出人头地。他们中的彼得被选为罗马元老，他乘坐着一辆凯旋车进入朱庇特神殿时，受到一阵不切实际的，称他为恺撒的欢呼声；约翰和斯蒂芬被尼古拉四世封为安科那的侯爵和罗马尼阿的伯爵，这位恩主对他们这个家族是如此偏爱，后来在一张讽刺画中被画成了一个被监禁在一个空心柱子中的形象。在尼古拉四世死去以后，他们的傲慢举止使得无人不十分厌恶。那两位红衣主教，一个叔父一个侄儿，都拒不承认卜尼法斯八世的当选；科隆纳在一段时间中同时受到他的世俗的和宗教的武力的压迫。他声称将组织一支十字军以对付他个人的敌人，他的财产被没收；他们的位于第伯河两侧的城堡被圣彼得的以及其他与之为敌的贵族军队所包围；而在他的主要据点帕勒斯特林那或普拉内斯特被捣毁以后。这块地方便被用一个犁铧划破，表明这里将永远被遗弃了。这６个被贬斥、放逐、加罪的兄弟乔装改扮，在欧洲流浪，始终没有放弃得救和复仇的希望。抱着这双重的希望，法兰西教廷自然便是他们的最可靠的避难所：他们推动并引导了菲利普的事业；如果他们真的曾对这位被禁锢的暴君的不幸和勇气怀着崇敬之心，我倒应该赞赏他们的宽宏大量了。他的民政措施被罗马人民所废除，却恢复了科隆纳的荣誉和财产；而通过他们的损失或可大致估计出他们的财富，而通过为死去的教皇可能有的同谋者和继承人而支付的１０万金弗罗林的赔偿，也可估算出他们的总的损失。所有对他们的宗教上的谴责和贬斥都被他的谨慎的继承人所禁止；这个家族的鸿运在经历过这一场短暂的大风暴之后，变得更加稳固了。斯基阿拉·科隆纳的勇敢主要表现于囚禁卜尼法斯，和很久以后为巴伐利亚的刘易斯加冕；以及，由于皇帝的感激之情，给他们的纹章上的柱子加上了皇冠。但是，在这个家族中名声及功劳占第一位的是年长的斯蒂芬，彼得拉克极喜欢他并把他看作是一位非他自己时代的人所能比拟，在古罗马时代也毫不逊色的英雄。对他的迫害和流放使他向各个民族展示了他在和平与战争时期的才能；处于困苦中时他不是一个让人怜悯的可怜虫，而是让人尊敬的对象；危险的出现激起他为自己的名字和国家争气的雄心；若有人问他，“你的堡垒现在在哪里？”他总把手放在心口上回答说，“在这里。”他以同样的善意期待重新繁荣的日子；直到他老迈的生命终止之前，斯蒂芬·科隆纳的祖先、他本人，以及他的儿孙们都使他的英名在罗马共和国和阿维尼翁教廷中永垂不朽。Ⅱ．从斯波莱托迁移来的乌尔西尼家族１２世纪被人称作乌尔苏斯的儿子们的几兄弟，来之于一位仅知道是他们家族的父亲的显赫人物。但他们很快就因他们这个家族人口众多、英勇善战、他们的坚固的城堡、他们在元老院和教士团中的荣誉，以及两个来之于他们的家族和血统的人，切莱斯廷三世和尼古拉三世荣任教皇，而使自己显然有别于一般罗马贵族了。他们的大量财富可以说是靠早期的大量任用亲属为官弄来的：圣彼得的产业大都被慷慨的切莱斯廷转到他们之手；而尼古拉则更是为了他们的缘故极想让那些君王互相结盟；然后在伦巴第和托斯卡尼建立新的王国；并赋与他们罗马元老的终身职务。所有被发现有助于形成科隆纳家族的伟大的东西都将同样有助于增进乌尔西尼家族的荣誉，并反映在，在２５０多年的时间里一直扰乱着这个基督教政体的久远的世仇中，各不相让的斗争中。他们的争吵的真正根源是彼此妒嫉对方的名声和权势；但是，只不过是为了有一个显得与众不同的空名，科隆纳采用了吉贝林的名字并加入了帝国党；乌尔西尼则接受了圭尔夫的称号，并决心为教会的事业卖力。在他们的相互对立的旗帜上各画着鹰和一串钥匙；而意大利的这两大派别在他们对他们之间的争端的产生和性质早已全被忘记的时候，斗争得却更为激烈了。在教皇迁往阿维尼翁之后，他们为争夺这个空缺动武；而每年选举两位敌对元老的这一可笑的妥协方案又使他们的不和的祸患永久化。由于他们的私仇，使得这座城市和地区变得一片荒芜，而他们的交替胜利又使两派势力始终起伏不定，无法取得均衡。但是直到那位最著名的乌尔西尼家族的保卫者遭到小斯蒂芬·科隆纳的突然袭击并将他杀死以前，这两个家族中还不曾有一人死于对方的刀剑之下。他的胜利因被指责违反了休战协议而显得并不光彩；而他们的失败则更以在教堂门口杀害一个无辜的男孩和他的两个仆人的下流手段进行了报复。然而，获胜的科隆纳同一年一度的同事被宣布为任职５年的元老。而彼得拉克的缪斯，却在他心中引起一种向往、一种希望、一个预言，相信这位慷慨的年轻人，他的可敬的英雄的儿子，定会重振罗马和意大利，使它们恢复昔日的辉煌光彩；相信他的正义之剑将斩尽那些力图颠覆这大理石柱的永恒基石的狼、狮子、毒蛇和熊。
① 当是以科隆纳（原文Ｃｏｌｏｎｎａ）颇近似Ｃｏｌｕｍｎ（柱子或石柱）一词，故有从各种名柱上追本溯源之议。—— 译者

罗马帝国衰亡史 D. M. 洛节编本 下册 / (英)爱德华·吉本著  黄宜思，黄雨石译. 商务印书馆, 1997年. 650–654页