history records no such tale as Rilke tells？

Dasha 2010-09-23 12:53:36

昔日Harvard University的Howard Roman说：history records no such tale as Rilke tells。果真里尔克那么善于编瞎话吗？里尔克说：
我的这部心理剧（傻按：Die Hochzeitsmenuett，婚礼小步舞曲）基于一个真实事件。Franz van Mieris不顾自己朋友兼同学Gabriel Metzu的再三谴责，因一时的情感冲动，想要诱拐白发苍苍的师傅Gerhard Dow 的年轻妻子。彼时，师傅Dow偶然在花园的亭子里演奏婚礼小步舞曲，音乐唤醒了年轻女人心中对自己丈夫的责任感和一种感恩的倾慕，促使她逃离罪恶——甚至——向被骗的后者坦白了自己全部过犯。事情此后的进展，清楚无疑。
德累斯顿美术馆里，在van Mieris 和Metzu的画旁，也可以看到Dow的自画像——手执小提琴。

Meinem Psychodrama liegt eine wahre Begebenheit zu Grunde. Franz van Mieris will trotz der anderweitigen Vorwürfe seines Freundes und Mitschülers Gabriel Metzu die jugendliche Gemahlin des greisen Meisters Gerhard Dow, einer flüchtigen Empfindung folgend, entführen. Dadurch, daß Meister Dow im Gartenpavillon zufällig die Hochzeitsmenuett spielt, erwacht im Herzen der jungen Frau das Pflichtgefühl und eine gewisse dankbare Zuneigung zu ihrem Gemahl, welche sie zwingt, das Verbrechen zu fliehen und — mehr noch — ihre ganze Schuld dem Hintergangenen einzugestehen. Was weiter geschieht, ist klar.
In der Dresdener Galerie befindet sich, neben den Bildern van Mieris' und Metzu's, auch das Selbstporträt Dow's — die Violine in der Hand


果真里尔克那么善于编瞎话吗？非也，应该是此兄考据不实：
The problem of invention and source, discussed necessarily inconclusively in connection with Murillo, is much clearer for Die Hochzeitsmenuett, except that here it seems as though Rilke himself were trying to confuse us. The prefatory note, previously quoted in full, began with the words: "Meinem Psychodrama liegt eine wahre Begebenheit zu Grunde," and proceeded to tell us the plot, and closed with the statement: "In der Dresdener Gallerie befindet sich neben den Bildern van Mieris' und Metzu's . . . auch das Selbstporträt Dow's . . . die Violine in der Hand." Because of the order of these sentences, the reader naturally assumes that the story of these painters is true and that the self-portrait of Dow had some connection with Dow's personal experience upon which Rilke's playlet pretends to be based. This would mean that Rilke only dramatized a story he found somewhere. But where?
As with Murillo, history records no such tale as Rilke tells, since Dow was never married and van Mieris was married at a very early age. Further more, the so-called self-portrait of Dow playing the violin is not really a portrait of Dow though it once was thought to be one. The Dresden catalogue of 1887 points this out and by the time Rilke visited the gallery seven years later the correct label must have been attached to the picture. How ever, none of these things really mattered to Rilke. The last remark in the preface about the self-portrait of Dow, "die Violine in der Hand," next to the pictures of van Mieris and Metzu, which was intended to make the reader believe that the story was true, points much more to the fact that Rilke got his idea from the paintings he saw in the Dresden museum but was ambiguously concealing his youthful inventiveness under the guise of historical verity.

Howard Roman, Rilke's Psychodramas. The Journal of English and Germanic Philology. Vol. 43, No. 4 (Oct., 1944), P. 407-408
http://www.jstor.org/stable/27705146


因为，实际情况是，早在1851年出版的《德累斯顿美术馆绘画佳作钢版雕刻集》（Adolph Görling (Nebst Text von), Stahlstich-Sammlung nach den vorzüglichsten Gemälden der Dresdener Galerie. A. H. Payne, 1851. S. 16-22，http://books.google.com/books?id=v5hJAAAAYAAJ）里，Gerard Dow本人就自述（von Ihm selbst）了这个故事《小步舞曲》（Das Menuet）。

Howard Roman说“Dow was never married”，但是他忽略了：
He also painted other portraits as commissions, as is evident from the two well-known portraits in the Steengracht Collection at the Hague (Nos. 167 and 1 68), said by Smith to be those of Dou and his wife ; Dou, however, was never married, and the man's portrait is so unlike the pictures he is known to have painted of himself that it certainly represents someone else. 

Gerard Dou. by Wilhelm Martin, Translated by Clara Bell. G. Bell and Sons, 1902. P.49



也就是说，里尔克的记述也并非空穴来风；此外，即使Dou并未有“die Violine in der Hand”的自画像，但Dasha所附当年德累斯顿美术馆藏的这幅画“man playing the violin”，足以证明里尔克所言不虚，因为，画中人与Dou自画像中的人真的很像，因为“man playing the violin”或者“Der Geiger am Fenster”这样的名字很可能是后命名的，当时被称作自画像也并非不可能。