你是我的凯旋门，我就是你的埃菲尔铁塔

Dasha 2008-07-07 22:57:15

很少上班时这么开心，是为之记。

英美法领导人八国峰会遭“恶搞”

新华社今晨专电八国集团首脑会议７日在日本洞爷湖拉开序幕。日本推出了以峰会为背景的科幻电影，英国、美国和法国领导人在影片中遭到不同程度“恶搞”。
英国《泰晤士报》７日报道，电影《基拉拉的反攻》(the Revenge of Giraras)上周末在日本上映。影片主要内容为，宇宙怪兽基拉拉在峰会期间突袭地球，多国领导人被困北海道，联手对抗基拉拉。
片中，基拉拉长着乒乓球般的触角，近似菱形的脑袋。面对突然出现的危机，美国总统暴怒，英国首相满脑子本国荣誉，法国总统则与日语翻译亲密交谈。
在《基拉拉的反攻》中，领导人角色的名字与真人名字相似，如法国总统名为埃斯卡尔戈·索科齐(Sorkozy)，与现任法国总统尼古拉·萨科齐(Sarkozy)的姓名仅差一个字母。
影片中，索科齐深情地告诉他的女翻译：“你是我的凯旋门，我就是你的埃菲尔铁塔。”
日本前首相安倍晋三也惨遭“恶搞”。影片把他塑造为事发时的日本首相，应对危机时频繁地上厕所。（完）
2008/07/07 21:37
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
于是乎，顺藤摸瓜，找《泰晤士报》官网：

Gordon Brown, George Bush and Nicolas Sarkozy star in Japan's G8 film

The Revenge of Girara is shocking

Richard Lloyd Parry in Sapporo 

Certain traditions are part and parcel of the G8 summit – the lavish banquets, the photo-opportunities, the souvenirs and the protests. In Japan, the occasion is being celebrated in a unique way – a Japanese monster movie in which Gordon Brown, George Bush and Nicolas Sarkozy make unflattering appearances. 

The Revenge of Girarais the latest in a long line of sci-fi B movies dating back to Godzilla, complete with wooden acting, dreadful script and a deeply unconvincing monster played by a man in a rubber suit. Its originality is in its contemporary setting, during this week’s summit in the resort of Lake Toya, on the island of Hokkaido. 

Girara, a warty space dinosaur with ping-pong ball antennae and a rhombus-shaped head, comes to Earth as the summit is taking place and immediately rampages through the nearest city. Trapped in their conference venue, the leaders of the free world resolve to send him to his doom and earn the gratitude of their people. Apart from the familiar low-tech special effects, the film becomes an opportunity for the display of racial stereotypes of the G8 nations from a Japanese point of view. Thus, the US President is blustering and overbearing, the British Prime Minister is obsessed with his country’s honour and reputation, and the French President spends much of the film naked in bed with his Japanese interpreter. 

Shochiku, a studio wholly unaffiliated with the Japanese Government, premiered the film at the weekend in the city of Sapporo, in a cinema that is seen being trampled by Girara early on in the story. It features several distinguished Japanese actors and a supporting cast of foreigners whose resemblance to the actual G8 leaders is almost as slight as their talent. 

The actor playing the US President sounds Canadian, the British leader is played by an American, and the Canadian Prime Minister is Italian. A pretence of discretion is maintained by changing some of the leaders’ names: the French President is “Escargot Sorkozy”, the Russian is “Stroganoff Putin”, and Gordon Brown is renamed “Meat Pie Brightman”. 

The satire, as well as the casual treatment of the facts, extends to the local characters as well. Instead of Yasuo Fukuda, the Japanese Prime Minister, the host leader in the film is his predecessor, Shinzo Abe, who resigned from the job last year after suffering from a bowel condition. Throughout the movie he is shown breaking wind and excusing himself to go to the lavatory. 

Mr Sorkozy seduces his ladyfriend with the words: “You are my Arc de Triomphe, I am your Eiffel Tower.” 

As our Meat Pie Brightman says: “Truly, Japan is the land of the gods.” 

http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/asia/article4282141.ece

傻按：新华社专电所谓“法国总统则与日语翻译亲密交谈”的“亲密交谈”，英语是“naked in bed with...”