01 - 点石成金的音乐巫师“Robert John Mutt Lange”

Dasha 评论 Hysteria: The Def Leppard Story   2007-12-20 01:41:44

感谢海燕代为购买1区原版DVD。原版DVD亦无字幕，只有硬听。

- Joe, I want you to go higher there.
- I can't go higher!
- Yes you can.
- I can't go higher. Alright!
- Yes you can, just give it a try, once more please.
- "Takin' all the best of me
    "Oh can't you see?
    "You got the best of me
    "Whoah can't you see?
    "You're bringin' on the heartbreak"

[And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters. And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament: ]and it was so.

当然，如果Def Leppard诸人听不进Mutt Lange的话（傻单位刚退休的一位老前辈挂在嘴边的诸多警句之一“现在的人都TMD香臭不分”），恐怕，也不会“事就这样成了”。

1981 proved to be good to Mutt Lange in other respects. A group of British teenagers, had released an album, one year prior, called "On Through The Night". This group showed enormous potential. Critics throughout the world began calling them the next Led Zeppelin (since they were from the United Kingdom). However, the production on the album was not equal to the content. But never fear, Mutt Lange was there. When he had taken over the reigns to produce their second album, things had begun to change. The 1981 release, "High and Dry", the second album from Def Leppard, was packed with a hard rocking sound that in my mind forever changed the sound of heavy metal. Although it didn't produce a hit at the time (although years later "Bringing On the Heartbreak" became a legendary ballad hit), it certainly caught the eyes of both critics and youth alike.
In 1983, Def Leppard released their third album, "Pyromania", which was not only produced by Mutt Lange, it had him credited as co-writer on all of the songs (some as principle writer). It seems like Mutt Lange's songwriting touches seemed to be exactly what the band needed and as a result, Def Leppard had several big hits such as, "Photograph", "Rock of Ages" and "Foolin'". After millions of copies were sold (over 10 million to date in the United States), Def Leppard and Mutt Lange had made it big. In fact, Def Leppard members often referred to Mutt Lange as the 6th member of the band.
In 1986, it looked as if Mutt Lange was invincible when his latest production, AC/DC's "Who Made Who", became another chart topper. However, things looked grim when an automobile accident involving drummer Rick Allen led to the loss one of his arms. Also, in December of 1986, Mutt Lange was also involved in a car wreck which resulted in leg injuries that required three weeks of hospitalization.
In 1987, four years after "Pyromania" and with Rick's determination and Mutt Lange's innovative production skills, a unique electronic drum sound was formed, and Def Leppard's next release, "Hysteria", was an instant smash eventually selling over 12 million copies in the United States. Like "Pyromania", Mutt Lange co-wrote all of the songs with the band including the smash "Poor Some Sugar On Me". The story goes that Mutt Lange had went to the restroom and Def Leppard singer Joe Elliott was just "goofing around" in the studio when "Mutt" returned sooner than expected and overheard Elliot singing "Pour Some Sugar On Me". To Elliot's surprise, Mutt Lange really liked the hook Elliot was singing and the results were the biggest smash hit off the album for Def Leppard.
Hysteria was the last album that Mutt Lange actively produced for Def Leppard turning over the day to day production to Mike "Bat Ears" Shipley. However, he stayed on as executive producer for the 1992 "Adrenalize" album where he continued to be co-writer on all of the songs except for one.
http://www.robertjohnmuttlange.com/




02 - 两个喜多善男的对话，想起里尔克：

Dasha 评论 明天的喜多善男~世界上最倒霉的男人的梦幻11天~   2008-03-23 05:36:05


Der andere Nikolaj Kusmitsch, der auf dem Roßhaarsofa, der Beschenkte, sah durchaus noch nicht übermütig aus, man durfte annehmen, daß er vernünftig sein würde.
　　
然而，里尔克对世界、对他人，太多冷漠、刻薄与弃绝：
Er lag und sagte lange Gedichte her, Gedichte von Puschkin und Nekrassow, in dem Tonfall, in dem Kinder Gedichte hersagen, wenn man es von ihnen verlangt.
　　
本剧大圆满的结局，当然有些媚俗。但是，哀伤的绝望中的希望，悲虔的黑颜色的独白，总有一些是大概唯日本人所独有的精神，也就是战国时代惊艳而凄惶缭乱的情怀。既重生而又轻生，既畏死而又匆匆赴死，恐怕是日本人最凄美最妖冶的樱花。
 

喜子(懒婆娘) 2008-03-27 00:18:51
大傻，能不能提个小意见，以后德文、日文、法文部分能否麻烦翻译一下。这样方便大家，又能训练你的翻译，多好。别小看这一点点翻译的积累哦。

咔，这方面你比我厉害，轮不到我来说。喜子比较多嘴哈。我最喜欢日剧啦。。不过好久没看过了。。

Dasha2008-03-27 02:05:06
Der andere Nikolaj Kusmitsch, der auf dem Roßhaarsofa, der Beschenkte, sah durchaus noch nicht übermütig aus, man durfte annehmen, daß er vernünftig sein würde. 

另一个尼古拉·库兹米奇，坐在马鬃沙发上的受赠者，看上去没有丝毫傲慢，你可以认为他已经失去了理智。

Er lag und sagte lange Gedichte her, Gedichte von Puschkin und Nekrassow, in dem Tonfall, in dem Kinder Gedichte hersagen, wenn man es von ihnen verlangt. 

他躺在床上单调地背诵着长诗，普希金和涅克拉索夫的诗，用一种孩童被要求背诵诗歌时的声调。




03 - Nicolette Krebitz是Dasha意外喜欢上的德国电影“Bandits”里的主唱

Dasha 评论 心是一片暗林   2008-07-03 09:54:35

Nicolette Krebitz是Dasha意外喜欢上的德国电影“Bandits”（ http://www.douban.com/subject/1292745/ ）里的主唱。爱屋及乌，就下载了她执导的这部女性心理影片：貌似因丈夫外遇（傻怀疑“外遇”是女主角的一个错觉），Marie身为两个孩子的母亲，一天之内经历了种种缭乱的日常琐事之后，午夜，火灾中远离众人，与一个陌生男子发生性行为，天明，赤身游过湖，上岸，目击疑似纵火嫌疑男开枪自杀，取枪，赤身登上公共汽车（第三次乘坐109大巴），回家，三声枪响，剧终。
看的是德语字幕，辅助了英语字幕，对白很快，字幕往往一闪而过，多少还有些迷糊。看到2/3放放停停开电子词典查生词，没有几个正经词。
摄影的用光很考究，“蒙太奇”还不够太“蒙”，有些做作——基本就是往事（以舞台形式、话剧方式夸张表达）与现实（有一些诡异成分，比如亚裔舞女在餐桌上手执匕首翩翩而舞）交叉。

说实话，太文艺的片Dasha一向不喜欢，宁肯看漏洞百出的搞笑日剧。所以，这部片子即使可以说没有看懂，也不想再看。

Nicolette Krebitz的声线极其诱人，很遗憾她不唱歌做导演了。